---
navhome: /docs/
next: true
title: 1.3
---

### 1.3 - Let's load a station

Let's load the `:talk` posts from your main %mailbox station onto the page. This will introduce us to a new urb.js request, `urb.bind`.

Checkout to the `1.3` branch:

```
$ git checkout 1.3
```

and reload the page!

>  gif of messages loading and sent messages appearing automatically

Sending new messages from both the browser and the CLI should prepend them to the top of your feed.

Alright, let's delve into this.

In order for your web server `%eyre` to be able to serve you any Urbit data, it obviously needs to get that data from somewhere.

For our first two examples, we didn't really need to "get" anything, since all that was required to display your ship name and send a `:talk` post to your porch was the authentication and user data already injected into your `urb.js` by `%eyre`. But this time, we wanted to load all the posts that your main %mailbox station (your %porch if you're a planet or comet) has received, and those posts' metadata.

Loading this data required a new urb.js function: `urb.bind`.

Let's check out the new code.

Here's the HTML:

```
<html>

...

  <body>

    ...

    <div id="posts">
    </div>

    ....

  </body>
</html>
```

and here's the JavaScript:

```
...

// helpers

function loadGrams(grams) {
  var oldPosts = document.getElementById('posts').innerHTML;
  var newPosts = '';
  grams.tele.slice().reverse().forEach(function showGram(gram) { // grams are array; display new 1st
    var textDiv = document.createElement('div');
    textDiv.innerText = gram.thought.statement.speech.lin.txt;
    newPosts += '<div id="' + gram.thought.serial + '">';
    newPosts += '<h2>~' + gram.ship + '</h2>';
    newPosts += '<h3>' + new Date(gram.thought.statement.date) + '</h3>';
    newPosts += textDiv.innerHTML;
    newPosts += '</div>';
  });
  document.getElementById('posts').innerHTML = newPosts + oldPosts; // newest first.
  document.getElementById('postButton').disabled = false;
}

...

// onLoad

(function bindGrams() {
  var path = '/f/' + mainStation(window.urb.user) + '/0';                             // f = grams. fetch all messages of station.

  return window.urb.bind(
    path,                                               // path
    {                                                   // params
      appl: 'talk',
      mark: 'json',
      ship: window.urb.user
    },
    function gotGrams(error, response) {                // callback
      if (error || !response.data || response.fail) {
        console.warn('urb.bind at path `' + path + '` failed. Error: ');
        console.warn(error);
        console.warn(response);
        return;
      }
      console.log('urb.bind at path: `' + path + '` succeeded! Response data: ');
      console.log(response.data);
      loadGrams(response.data.grams);
    });
}());

...
```

`urb.bind` is the primary `urb.js` wrapper function we use to establish data subscriptions with out ship or other ships from the web.

Just as in our last `urb.send`, to `bind` we must specify the `appl` in the `params` for our request. More specifically, when we specify an `appl`, we specify a `%gall` application. The %gall kernel module, or `vane`, is Urbit's backend application model, state manager and subscription handler. Thus, an `urb.bind` call from the web will tell a ship through %eyre to fetch some %gall data from somewhere and serve it back to the web client over HTTP.

> All of your ship's %gall applications are in the `app` directory of its home desk.
>
> All of the `vanes` or kernel modules of your ship are located in the `arvo` directory of its home desk.

Where's the "somewhere" that %gall fetches your messages from? Let's look in your Dev Tools Networking tab again at the JSON payload `urb.bind` sends; it's the `0.json?PUT` request (reload the page if you missed it):

```
{
  "oryx": "nislut-matdel-sornes-habwen--habsem-wallyx-lopref-namsen",
  "ship": "lannyx-parlyn-picrus-latruc--tacnel-wactec-livput-lishes",
  "appl": "talk",
  "mark": "json",
  "path": "/f/porch/0",
  "wire": "/f/porch/0"
}
```

Remember this `wire`, or `path` parameter we talked about earlier? In `urb.bind`, we specify it as its own function argument. We're declaring the path endpoint we want to open a subscription to for sending and receiving data.

The path endpoints we've configured on the backend for each subset of `:talk` data are [a little different](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/blob/maint-20160818/app/talk.hoon#L144-L147). Generally, it makes sense that a backend `:talk` station should have separate endpoints for only fetching messages versus, say, fetching its list of subscriptions, or fetching all the stations your ship is hosting. This makes it cleaner and more performant to get only the data we need for whatever we're trying to accomplish on the frontend. This also means we can create our own `:talk` data types in the future without interfering with the existing API.

We give each of these `:talk` data subsets a single-letter symbol for ease and performance. So, in this case, the symbol we give in our request is  `f`, which asks your ship for all the `grams`, or posts, from, in this case, your porch station. Specifying message number `0` at the end of the path effectively tells our ship to fetch all of the `:talk` messages of that station since the station was created.

Thus, the full `:talk` `path` we bind to in this request is: `/f/porch/0`.

Additionally in the request, we specify a different `mark` from last time, `"json"`, which, you guessed it, gets the things we want -- our porch messages -- and serves them to us as typed JSON data. From there we can use regular frontend techniques to build a simple vanilla UI (clearly, we haven't focused on styling yet).

When we call any `urb.js` function like `urb.bind`, the library automatically formulates the URL where we send the XMLHttpRequest. This tells our ship's %eyre server over HTTP what we want to do. The full URL is always in the following format: `localhost (or ship.urbit.org) + authentication stuff + appl + path + mark`. If our request isn't a POST, we explicitly tag that on the end of the URL for %eyre to know. Since all bind requests are PUT requests, we tag on `?PUT`. But we still ultimately end up sending a POST request. What do we PUT at the endpoint? Just a boolean true notifier to our ship that we want to open a subscription to the included path. And we keep the subscription open until a page exit or connection timeout.
* XX include part about heartbeat?
* XX how can I make this whole 1.3 section way less dense?

So, to load our porch messages, the full URL for this XHR is `http://localhost:8444/~/is/~[ship]/talk/f/porch/0.json?PUT`, where [ship] is your full comet name. This is basically interpreted as, "Hey %eyre, I'm authenticated, and I want to be subscribed to all my porch messages. Fetch and serve me these as JSON, and send me any new ones if they come in while this subscription is open."

Once we get this JSON on the frontend, we can construct any UI we want. Urbit isn't limited to any frontend framework. But Urbit's unidirectional, [Command-Query Separated](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command%E2%80%93query_separation) style tends to gel really nicely with React and Redux/FRP-style frameworks. By CQS, we simply mean that querying for some data shouldn't actually change it in any way on the backend, and that sending changes to the backend shouldn't directly affect what you're reading. Unless of course you're subscribed to an endpoint which was directly affected by the sent change. `urb.bind` falls into this category, where sending a `:talk` post from the UI will add the new post message to the endpoint of the subscription, which the frontend will then receive as JSON that will automatically get added to the DOM.

Move on to the next station where we'll go a little deeper into organizing stations.
