---
navhome: /docs/
next: true
title: 1.4
---

### 1.4 - Let's load and join another station

Your first porch station is a great starting `:talk` station for direct messages and for subscribing to other stations. It'd be cool to also have a public feed station that other ships could subscribe to, since our porch, a %mailbox station, is only privately readable.

Thankfully, your ship also boots with a `%public` station, which is a `%journal`. A %journal is the opposite of a %mailbox; it's publicly readable, but only you can write to it. Like a Twitter profile.

Let's load it up!

Checkout to branch `1.4`, and reload the page:

```
$ git checkout 1.4
```

Send your first public post! Make it count!

> something funny

The only thing we changed from the last branch was the station audience. But if you look in your `:dojo`:

> gif of no showing up

your posts don't show up. Why not?

This is actually providing insight into something really cool and powerful about `:talk`. All of your `:talk` subscriptions aren't at all locked into one place; you're given abstraction power to group different feeds in multiple separate stations, if you want.

So, for example, you might want to keep your %porch reserved for private messages with friends and family. You might want to create a %work station and %chat station to separate your messages further by group audience and message type (like asynchronous vs. synchronous). And you might want a %feed station to group together public, microblog/Twitter like feeds of posts by people you want to be subscribed to.

So we don't subscribe your %porch to your %public station by default since, well, it's up to you where to subscribe it to! But just to prove this point, and also for convenience (since you can only see your %porch on the command line until our next big release), let's `;join` your %public station from the `:talk` CLI, which will tell your porch to subscribe to it.
* XX grammar ordering correct? porch<->public

In the `:talk` CLI prompt (remember, `Ctrl-x` switches back and forth between your `:dojo` and `:talk` consoles):

```
talk[] ;join %public
```

And if you did this right, you should get a several-line response. Something like:

```
--------------| ;join %public
--------------| new glyph '>'
--------------| porch: hey '>' %public
--------------| new '>' %public
--------------| --met ~lannyx-parlyn-picrus-latruc--tacnel-wactec-livput-lishes
--------------| %public: cap visible activity
--------------| %public: but journal
* XX tweet printed
```

and the post you sent a minute ago from the browser should have appeared in your %porch command line feed.

As the response indicated, your %public station now has an ASCII `glyph`, which is a shortcut character you can use to make it easy to switch between audience stations in the CLI. To set your audience in your `:talk` CLI, just enter `;<glyph>` (`;>` in my above case).

And if you send a second %public post, this time from your CLI (make this count too!):

> gif

the post should have loaded automatically on your web page.
